## S2.01: Advertising {#s2.01:-advertising}

**Owner:** Directors · **Last reviewed:** 2025 board (imported from the Hitchhiker's Guide, July 2026) · **Status:** current — when you find something stale, fix it and update this line.

The advertising should be partially taken on by the person assigned to this task at the start of the semester, but it is your job to make sure that you are actually getting enough teachers and to do many of the other advertising aspects, like sending emails and making FB posts, etc (you should find a way to divide this up). A few things to keep in mind:

1. Teacher recruitment events are usually poorly attended; either have one, and advertise really well, or don’t have one at all  
2. The vast majority of teachers won’t sign up until the last few days, so definitely advertise as much as possible, but don’t panic too much  
3. Facebook posts and emails should be sent with increasing frequency as the deadline nears--this means posting every day and emailing twice a day. Be sure to only email teachers that have not signed up for a class  
4. Raffling off Amazon gift cards doesn’t seem to help get more teachers; maybe something like giving free mugs to the first 20 teachers would help?  
5. Refer to the [Splash Data to Know](#s1.02-splash-data-to-know) section for info on how many teachers/class hours/classes/sections you should have

Ideas for advertising--you should do all of these (you are responsible for getting approximately 150 teachers\!):

1. Email anyone who has taught before via the website (do this continuously\!\!\!)  
2. Post on Facebook using the Splash account, then post in each of the Class Facebook pages, and have all the admins share the post. If you’re really committed, post on instagram too\! You should loosely follow the templates of past posts, such as these examples:

Example 1:  
Spring Splash teacher registration is CLOSING TOMORROW\! Please sign up to teach using the link below\!

Our Spring Splash program will run on Saturday, April 6th. It's a great opportunity to teach your passion to middle and high schoolers for one or two hours. Email yalesplash@gmail.com with any questions\!  
[https://yale.learningu.org/te…/Splash/2019\_Spring/teacherreg](https://l.facebook.com/l.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fyale.learningu.org%2Fteach%2FSplash%2F2019_Spring%2Fteacherreg%3Ffbclid%3DIwAR3JB0FG1YWJPl8w5U5X4I_vK92w2wvSpZqn8BJDpyftvfaX8uq7lKtqu1w&h=AT2Aq-8LwFVxLGxoFdLeXGwRYZL204deZt3Ade0TZjO93l37RdAbW1bJ3B3P1gQrG-iNEZ7jeeblXwbtVkawxUzGm9cimg7UdQ8UdChpyh-dfNW2nquwyBkPuFOaVORxZ-ybGYgsMKskljxV4eA2TckrASWxyw)

Example 2:  
Class registration for Splash ends TONIGHT at 11:59PM\! Splash will include both middle and high school students. This is a great way to take part in educational outreach--our students genuinely love meeting college students and learning about the interesting, exciting topics that you all choose to teach. What you teach is entirely up to you\!  
Spring Splash 2019 will be held on Saturday, April 6th. If you’re interested in teaching for Splash, please sign up your class here\!  
[https://yale.learningu.org/te…/Splash/2019\_Spring/teacherreg](https://l.facebook.com/l.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fyale.learningu.org%2Fteach%2FSplash%2F2019_Spring%2Fteacherreg%3Ffbclid%3DIwAR3JB0FG1YWJPl8w5U5X4I_vK92w2wvSpZqn8BJDpyftvfaX8uq7lKtqu1w&h=AT2Aq-8LwFVxLGxoFdLeXGwRYZL204deZt3Ade0TZjO93l37RdAbW1bJ3B3P1gQrG-iNEZ7jeeblXwbtVkawxUzGm9cimg7UdQ8UdChpyh-dfNW2nquwyBkPuFOaVORxZ-ybGYgsMKskljxV4eA2TckrASWxyw)

3. Ask admins to (1) make an announcement about Splash in their classes (2) text their friends about Splash--give them a sample blurb (3) Text in their GroupMe’s and share the FB posts (4) Talk about Splash in their other clubs  
4. Hang posters\!  
5. Email the DUS’s  
6. Email the heads of the clubs (get the addresses using the scraping software--ask Jack about this)  
7. Email the FroCo’s  
8. Email Deans/Heads of your college
