## S1.01 Responsibilities of Directors & Mentors {#s1.01-responsibilities-of-directors-&-mentors}

**Owner:** Directors · **Last reviewed:** 2025 board (imported from the Hitchhiker's Guide, July 2026) · **Status:** current — when you find something stale, fix it and update this line.

Congratulations on becoming a Splash director\!

### Directors’ responsibilities:  {#directors’-responsibilities:}

As director, you are responsible for making sure the program runs smoothly. This means making sure that everything that needs to get done does get done, and as a result, delegation of tasks will be a very important part of your duties. If things don’t get done and someone has to stay up all night the day before Splash, that will mean you and your co-director. Your mentor is responsible for helping you and teaching you everything you need to know in order to run a Splash (and for making sure you stay on the right track), but at the end of the day, you are responsible for the program’s success.

A (by no means comprehensive) list of very general directors tasks is below:

- Checking the Splash email daily (and at least twice a day closer to the program date) and respond to emails appropriately (this document includes a number of sample email situations you should familiarize yourself with)  
- Meeting weekly with your co-director for \~2+ hours (meetings tend to run a bit longer during busy weeks) to create an agenda and start doing trickier tasks  
- Make Splash announcements and assign tasks during weekly team meetings; this also means missing as few weekly team meetings as possible; ideally this number should be 0, but missing 1-2 meetings for legitimate reasons (for the entire semester) is normally okay if you plan ahead and make sure that your co-director can attend  
- Basically all logistical details aside from the reservation of the major rooms are your responsibility (more details are provided later in the document, of course). Also, do not assume that assigning a task to someone means that they have completed it. You need to confirm that any assigned task has actually been done (and done in the correct manner).  
- Double-checking to catch errors made by admin team members that are relevant to the program

### What does my mentor do? {#what-does-my-mentor-do?}

Your mentor is there to teach you how to do Splash-related tasks that you may have trouble with, and to generally be your go-to person for any questions (BUT you should always check this document before asking your mentor questions, because a simple Control F search of this document can provide the answer to many questions). Additionally, your mentor will check up on how things are going throughout the semester. Mentors do not usually attend directors meetings with the following exceptions: part of the 1st meeting to help get things started; the meeting(s) for scheduling classes; the meeting when student registration opens; and the last meeting before Splash happens. Mentors are not there to fill in for the directors, but rather to help make sure the directors are staying on track for a successful Splash.
