## S1.13 T-shirts {#s1.13-t-shirts}

**Owner:** Directors · **Last reviewed:** 2025 board (imported from the Hitchhiker's Guide, July 2026) · **Status:** current — when you find something stale, fix it and update this line.

* We have been using Rachel Lawrence as our designer. $100 per program.   
  * Fill [this form](https://goo.gl/forms/RmOOrVXzbSYbGW7M2) out and try to give her as much notice & info (what colors you want, any ideas, etc) as possible. She is a busy grad student.   
  * Email her ([rslawrence95@gmail.com](mailto:rslawrence95@gmail.com)) once you fill out the form to confirm that your form submission was received and whether she thinks it is doable/ has any questions.  
  * Mail her a small of each color of each shirt when you get them along with a thank you note. (Typically we wait and do this for both Sprout & Splash together to save a bit of money on mailing/ effort). Her current address is **2118 Eighth Street Unit B, Berkeley CA 94710,** but she won’t be in grad school forever so maybe confirm her address before mailing her something  
  * Pay her via Billpay or by including a physical check with the shirts. Usually do this after Splash & Sprout out of laziness/ she doesn’t seem to mind.  
* Ordered from Doug at Unlimited Promotions \- [doug@unlimitedpromotions.com](mailto:doug@unlimitedpromotions.com)  
  * Gildan T-shirts, adult sizes  
    * Colors: [this link](https://www.alphabroder.com/cgi-bin/online/webshr/prod-labeldtl.w?sr=G500&currentColor=) has the color options Doug is able to get for us; most of the swatches are not very color-accurate on that page so once you find potential colors go look [here](https://www.mygildan.com/store/us/browse/colorGridSearch.jsp?colorStyleSelected=all&colorGroupSelected=all) to see what they’ll actually look like as a T-shirt  
      * PLEASE PICK COLORS WE HAVEN'T USED RECENTLY. Think about what colors teachers have gotten recently, think about what colors students have gotten recently. Mix it up\!  
* Needs 10-11 business days to process order → make sure to order shirts early enough to allow for this & processing time at package center  
* Estimating numbers:  
  * When looking at numbers, also compare to what we ordered for the past program for that age range and make sure things add up similarly. The distribution of sizes should be similar from year to year adjusting for size of program.  
  * Make sure student shirts specified adult sizes in the options, otherwise you realllyyyyyyy need to downsize people.  
  * Teachers:   
    * See if the “T-shirts” section on the dashboard is working. If not, you need to make an arbitrary user list of teachers and split by shirt size.  
      * All “XS” shirts become “S”.  
    * Add sizes of admins who aren’t teaching  
    * Add 6 small, 6 medium, 2 large, 1 extra large (people tend to down size when they see the shirts, so we need to reweight their sizes slightly)  
  * Students  
    * Take the numbers from the dashboard (under students, there should be a line for each type of shirt and a number of how many ordered it)  
    * Multiply each of S, M, XL numbers by .95 and L by .9, round to the nearest whole for each one. Order that.  
  * For any other order (e.g. admin T-shirts)  
    * Doug sends us \+/- 5% of the number listed on the order form due to quirks in the physical process of making shirts. (I don’t understand it either but it’s in the TOS in his contract so we’re stuck with it.) Yield makes up for this number when ordering teacher/student shirts for programs, but it’s something to be aware of if you’re placing a non-program order where the numbers need to be exact.  
* Consider price brackets. The bracketing looks like this, at least for 3 ink colors of Gildan. If you are close to the next bracket (\~5-10 shirts) or deciding whether to order student & teacher shirts at the same time for sprout, look at this.  
  * QUANTITY 72-143 $4.65  
  * QUANTITY 144-287 $4.35  
  * QUANTITY 288-499 $4.20  
  * QUANTITY 500-999 $3.55  
* Send checks via ConnexU BillPay upon receipt of invoice (will be sent to Splash PO box). \*Don’t\* send a check based off of the amount from the order form; that doesn’t include shipping and handling.
