##  S3.01: Scheduling {#s3.01:-scheduling}

**Owner:** Directors · **Last reviewed:** 2025 board (imported from the Hitchhiker's Guide, July 2026) · **Status:** current — when you find something stale, fix it and update this line.

Scheduling must be completed after teacher reg has closed but AT LEAST 36 hours before student reg opens. This is because the course catalog must be emailed to students 24 hours before student reg opens, and the website takes many hours to send mass emails. The time that it takes to schedule varies based on how on top of things the people approving classes have been, but it usually takes **4-6 hours** (this is not an exaggeration) because it is a very complex process. A room should be reserved the week prior so that this can occur. The “Tips for Scheduling” below is **REQUIRED reading** before coming to scheduling.

Tips for scheduling

* **SCHEDULE 1 SECTION OF EACH CLASS FIRST, THEN GO BACK AND SCHEDULE THE SECOND SECTION, AND SO ON.**  
* **FOR PROGRAMS IN LC AND WLH, KEEP ALL MIDDLE SCHOOL CLASSES IN WLH\!**  
* **ALSO, PAY ATTENTION TO ANY SPECIAL REQUESTS TEACHERS HAVE FOR ROOM RESOURCES (e.g. PIANO, MOVABLE CHAIRS, etc). (This is why we had you make that spreadsheet of special requests/class notes when approving classes.)**  
* **The main goals are:**  
  * **Balance total class capacities, number of classes, number of classes per category, and number of classes (and overall capacity) per grade for each block.**  
  * **Note: usually it is hardest to get teachers for the 1st block, so as a rule of thumb, if a teacher has availability for 1st block, try to schedule them there\!**  
  * **Maximize the number of classes you are able to schedule (more spots for kids\!), while not scheduling more sections than there will be kids (empty classes and sad teachers).**  
  * **Match class size to room size as closely as possible (and if possible, put a class in a room that’s too big, not one that’s too small).**


1. Go to this doc and [Make sure room availabilities are set up correctly.](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hzn4h0qy_eg6uNIeOYFcnBRyc_em4iuFW1RKTODPeQM/edit) This is really important\!  
2. Filter by class size to get the people who selected 200 as their capacity. There will be more of these than class blocks, so you will have to choose which ones get Sudler (and the large LC lecture halls if using). Any class in Sudler/large lecture halls should include 7-8 graders. Ideally, it should be 7-12. Also, if this class has been taught in the past, check if it filled the capacity of the room it was in last time. If not, it should not be in Sudler. I would advise against placing 2 sections of a class in Sudler.  
3. The ones that didn't get into Sudler but seem as though they might be popular and include middle schoolers should go into the WLH rooms with capacity 110 and 75, and the other similarly-large LC rooms. Filter to get the classes with capacity above 74 and see if any of these deserve those rooms either. Again, try to put classes accessible to middle schoolers in these rooms.  
4. Next, filter to get the smallest classes (below 25\) and schedule the ones for *middle schoolers*. Try to match capacity with room size as accurately as possible. Spread these tiny classes out amongst different time blocks.   
5. Next, open the dashboard and click the "timeslots" button. This will show you how well/badly you have done distributing middle school capacity across the blocks. Now schedule the remaining middle school classes while trying to put slightly larger classes in the timeslots with less capacity, and the smaller ones in the timeslots with higher capacity. Beware that these timeslots don’t update very well. The link noted below has useful info that does update regularly.  
6. Look at this page: [https://yale.learningu.org/manage/Splash/2022\_Spring/scheduling\_checks](https://yale.learningu.org/manage/Splash/2019_Fall/scheduling_checks) and click on "number of classes in each block by category". Make sure that the categories are evenly represented across blocks for middle schoolers.  
7. Now that you're done scheduling middle school classes, check in to see how the admin situation is looking. Write down which admins you currently have scheduled in each block. Note that you **shouldn’t really have admins teaching 1st block or block right before lunch** or your life will suck. You also shouldn’t have more than \~3-4 admins teaching per block. It’s easiest to schedule admins in 2nd block or 5th block, so put all/most of them there.  
8. Now schedule the rest of the admin classes.  
9. Now schedule the remaining classes (this should be high school classes and not admin classes). Keep a constant eye on the timeslot bottleneck situation and aim to make it as even as possible.  
10. Check the categories per time block again. Make sure it's even.  
11. Now that you're done, see how much the class capacities differ than room capacities. If the room capacity is greater than the class capacity by 5 or less, change the class capacity to match. If the room capacity is greater by more than 5, email the teacher saying their room allows more students and you'd love to give more students the chance to take their class, so would they be willing to increase class size to match room size (tell them this number). Wait for answers, and change accordingly.
